Okay, so let's go into CloudWatch.
And we're going to look at first CloudWatch metrics.
So let's go onto the right hand side, onto metrics,
All metrics, and here we have some information
and we can try the new interface. Okay.
So, here we have some information around all the metrics
that we have created in this course, and you may have
a different screen, but as you can see, lots of services.
We're already publishing some metrics into CloudWatch,
which is pretty cool.
So for example, I can click on the SQS, Queue Metrics,
and look at this demo SQS queue.
And, we can see that the number of messages received
has like, one data point right here.
If I look for example, at number of messages deleted,
it doesn't show anything.
Number of sessions sent, here's one, and then we can have,
for example, Number of Empty Received and so on.
So you can get a lot of information for SQS.
But, let's have a look for example for EC2 instances.
So let's go into EC2, Per-instance Metric,
and then we can look at the CPU utilization of my instance,
and I've just launched an instance before, so again,
it will show you some metrics.
So you need to, you know, have it (stutters)
running for a longer period of time
to get some information out of it.
But at least it shows you that within the dashboard
of culture metrics, you can get a lot of information
for a lot of different services, okay?
Next, what we want to do is to create an alarm.
So let's go through the process of creating an alarm.
So, let's go to All alarms and create an alarm.
We need to first select a metric, so let's find
that CPU utilization metric for our EC2 instance,
we'll select it.
And, then, we can say whether we want, we want to consider
the average, the sum, the maximum zone,
so we have different settings for this alarm.
We'll keep it very simple, exhibit for the average
over the five minute period,
and while saying, hey, if the CPU utilization
is greater than 80%, okay, then please
treat this as a alarm.
But you could say Alarm, OK, or Insufficient data,
but we'll say it's an alarm.
In which case, well, you need to send a notification
in to a new topic of SNS called
the Default_CloudWatch_Alarms_Topic,
and then the recipient will be stephan@example.com.
Let's create this topic.
And now, any time the Cloudwatch alarm is going to go
into the alarm state, it's going to send an email
into this SNS- sorry,
a notification to this SNS topic,
which will in turn, send an email to stephanie@example.com.
So this is pretty cool, cause we have notifications,
but also we have other options to set up
Auto Scaling actions, EC2 actions,
or Systems Manager actions.
But again, to keep things very simple,
let's just consider only the notification.
Click on Next.
Then, this one is my DemoAlarm.
And then as you can see,
this is the alarm threshold, the red line,
and the blue dot is the actual value,
so as we can see we're, far below the actual threshold.
So let's click on Create alarm and here we go,
I have created my first alarm.
There's another way you can create an alarm,
it's directly from within the EC2 console for EC2 instances.
So I am in my EC2 console,
and this is the instance I created from before,
so just a very simple instance with no configuration.
Okay. And I just launched it.
And if you go first under the Monitoring tab, here.
As we can see, we have some information around
all the monitoring of our EC2 instance,
So we get CPU utilization, status checks, and so on.
So lots of information right here.
And, what we can do here, is that we can add an alarm
to our EC2 instance.
So to do so, you scroll to the right hand side
and there is an alarm status,
and you can click on this plus button right here
to create an alarm.
So here we manage CloudWatch alarms for our EC2 instance.
We're going to create an alarm for it.
And then we're going to say, hey,
the alarm notification should go to this topic
that we've created from before.
And, then there should be an alarm action.
And, the alarm action is going to be
recover my EC2 instance.
So we're going to say, hey,
I want to recover my EC2 instance, when,
and then you do say the data to sample.
So we'll choose Status check failed: either.
So when either status check is failing,
please recover my EC2 instance.
So this is a very handy way
to create an alarm for CloudWatch.
And then, click on Create.
And this is not working,
because we need to choose (stutters)
Systems check failed for the metrics.
So, always good to be wrong sometimes.
So, Status check failed: system, and Create, and here we go.
Now I have created a CloudWatch alarm on my instance.
So now we have two alarms for my CloudWatch instance,
uh, for my EC2 instance.
Great. And we can create a third alarm if you wanted to,
For example, we're saying, hey, if, then,
so we can notify to the same topic
and we're going to add an alarm action to reboot this time.
And we'll say, hey, if the CPU utilization is greater
than 95% for three consecutive periods of five minutes,
then we're assuming that's, hey, I think
our EC2 two instance is stuck on a CPU solution loop.
Therefore, please reboot it.
So this is just a use case.
So as we can see we are far below,
and we can create this alarm.
And again, now we have three alarms
attached to our EC2 instance,
which is quite good.
Okay, and if you go back into the Cloudwatch console,
as you can see, and refresh this page,
now we have three alarms.
So there's another kind of alarm
that we can not create in all the regions.
You can actually create it in only one region.
And this region is us-east-1
because it is a billing alarm.
So as you can see on the left hand side right now,
there is no billing alarm.
To make billing alarm appear here,
you click on the region selection
and go into us-east-1.
So going into us-east-1,
as you can see on the left hand side now, there is billing.
And, now we can create a billing alarm,
which is to alarm us based on the billing
for specific services.
So, we're going to create an alarm.
And then when you specify a metric,
so there's going to be estimated charges of USD.
And in here you can say, okay, if my charters
are greater than eight USD, then go into an alarm state
and then, send a notification into a new topic,
so we'll call this one-
this one is the default topic for billing,
and then against it's stephan@example.com.
So we need to recreate an SNS topic
because we are in another region.
And obviously, every resources in the database
is scoped by region. Okay.
Almost every resources.
So we need to create this topic, here we go,
and click on Next and then DemoBillingAlarm.
Click on Next.
And we're good to go.
So again, just to show you that billing data
is only available in us-east-1,
and this could come up in the exam, okay.
So as we can see with alarms and metrics,
we can do a lot of automation in AWS, which is quite handy.
So just to finish with this hands-on,
we just need to clean up what we have.
So let's clean up this alarm right here, the billing alarm.
And then please make sure to go back
to the region where you were working from before.
So for me, this is Ireland.
And what I'm going to do is delete all my alarms,
so I'm going to delete my three alarms right here.
So Actions, Delete.
And then I'm going to also go into my EC2 instance
and terminate it.
So that's it for this hands-on.
I hope you liked it.
And I will see you in the next lecture.